Welcome back to the
Computer Forensics Path.
In this course, we're talking
about creating a forensic image.
In Module 3 of this course,
we're going to talk
about write blockers.
Now, hardware write blockers,
which are the ones you
really want to try to use,
they have firmware
to prevent writes.
So there's built-in firmware
inside the hardware
write blockers.
This firmware does not depend on
our operating system or
a BIOS to block writes.
It is independent of
our operating system.
It is effective in
modern Windows and other
operating systems.
Software write
blockers by contrast,
they do work in a
Dos environment with
the intercept 13 of the BIOS
command for the writes,
but they will not work in a
modern Windows environment.
They can be effective in
stopping writes to USB ports.
You always want to test
these write blockers because
I've downloaded quite a few
of them and tested them,
and some of them simply
just don't work,
or they don't work on
a particular drive
that you're trying
to use them on.
They're not reliable for
the most part and we'll
talk more about that.
Now, there are some paid
software write blockers
that will work in
modern Windows and
they're listed up here.
There is Safe Block,
which will work in a
modern Windows system,
and there is FastBloc SE,
which is an add-on
module to EnCase.
EnCase is an
examination software.
Now there are some software
write blockers that
will work on USB ports,
I have two of them
listed up here.
There are more out there and
I would recommend again,
testing and validating whatever
you download to make sure it
is going to work before you
use it on any type of evidence.
But we have Thumbscrews and
USB write blocker
for all Windows,
and as the name says,
it work is in a
Windows environment.
Always test a software write
blocker before you
use it on evidence,
I cannot say that enough.
We're going to do a demo of
a write blocker validation.
If you would like to follow
along the items you're
going to need, are,
you're going to need
the program called
Thumbscrews and a USB device.
The URL for Thumbscrews
is in the slide.
Remember go ahead
and download it,
and then you'll have to
extract it, it's a zip file.
Start Thumbscrews before
connecting the USB device.
Because how this particular
piece of software works,
is it will not block
the USB devices you
already have plugged
into your computer.
Once you turn it on,
it only blocks new
USB connections.
So make sure that you activate it
before you connect
the USB device.
If you have a
small-capacity USB device,
that's what we want to use,
the smaller the better
because it goes faster.
Let's get started
with our software,
USB Write Blocker validation.
The first thing we're
going to need to do,
is download USB Write
Blocker for all Windows,
the URL should be in
your class handout or
it is in the video.
Once you've navigated
to the site,
go ahead and click ''Download''.
Make sure you're downloading
USB Write Blocker All Windows.
The download will start
in a couple of seconds.
Once the download's complete,
it's going to be a zip file,
so go ahead and save it
wherever you'd like to.
Once you've saved it,
go ahead and extract it.
I'm going to use 7-Zip.
I would recommend using
7-Zip to extract it.
I'm just going to
extract it here.
Once it extracts, you'll
see a file
USB_Write_Blocker_All_Windows.bat.
It's a batch file and that's
what we're going to use.
Go ahead and double-click
on that and it will open.
Once it opens, it's
very simple to use.
If we want to turn it on,
what you do is you type a one,
then "Enter", and then it'll
prompt you to type
''Enter'' one more time.
To turn it off, you
simply type a two,
"Enter", and then
it will also prompt
you to type ''Enter''
one more time.
To exit, simply type the
number 3 and "Enter".
We're going to go
ahead and turn it on.
I'm going to type a one, "Enter",
and it's going to tell
you, it's going to
make a change to your registry.
That's how it
prevents the writes.
Then you have to type
''Enter'' again to continue.
Now, it will tell you the
USB write blocker is on.
At this point is when
we're going to plug
our test thumb drive,
our test USB device in.
Do not plug the USB device
in before you turn this on.
If you do, it will not work.
Now that it's on, we're going
to plug in our USB device.
We can see when we plug
in the USB device,
these are the files that
are on my USB device.
Now I want to bring up
FTK Imager because we are
going to hash this device.
But before we do that,
notice the drive letter is M.
Bring up Disk
Management because we
want the actual disk number,
not just the logical volume.
My logical volume is going to be
M. My physical disk is Disk 13.
When I create this hash value,
I want to hash the physical disk,
not the logical volume.
Whatever yours is,
it'll probably be
different than it
is on my computer,
but make a note of the
drive letter for the volume
and the number of the physical
disk you're going to be
looking for when
we use FTK Imager.
Now go ahead and
launch FTK Imager.
I'm going to go to ''File'',
''Add Evidence Item''.
We're going to use a physical
drive, click "Next".
From the drop-down box,
select your USB device.
Mine was Physical Drive 13,
yours could be different,
and then we're going
to click "Finish".
Now, we can take a look
at what we have here.
When I look at the
root of the volume,
I can see the same files I
saw on Windows Explorer.
I want to hash this
physical disk.
I'm going to highlight
the physical disk.
Do not highlight
the logical volume,
you'll get a
different hash value.
Make sure you're highlighting
the physical drive.
Click "File", "Verify
Drive Image",
then it will start working.
Now it is hashing
our physical disk,
and because my test
drive is small,
which is what you want
for your test devices,
it goes very quickly.
It gives you the physical drive
number, how many sectors,
an MD5 hash value,
a SHA1 hash value,
and it also notes that it did
not find any bad sectors.
This is called the pre-hash,
and we're going to do this before
we attempt to write to the drive.
Now you need to document
your pre-hash because
Imager will not save this
information for you.
I like to use the snipping tool.
You can do a screenshot,
however you want to do it,
but make sure you document it.
I'm just going to save this
as usb_testdrive_pre-hash.
I'll just leave it on
my desktop for now.
Now I'm going to go
ahead and minimize that.
I'm going to close this.
I'm going to remove
my evidence item
and I'm going to
close FTK Imager.
The reason I'm doing that
is I don't want Imager to
read from a cache file,
I want it to re-hash my
drive when I'm done.
So go ahead and close FTK Imager.
Now we're going to bring
up Windows Explorer
and try to write
to our test drive.
I have Windows Explorer.
This is my test drive,
USB Test Drive M. My volume
label is USB Test Drive.
I'd recommend using
a volume label
that you're going to recognize.
Let's try to make
some changes here.
I'm going to write, this is
a USB software
writeblock validation.
It doesn't really
matter what you write.
What we're trying to do here is
show that we cannot
write to the drive.
I'm going to try to
save it to the drive.
I immediately get a
message that says I
can't save to this
particular drive.
Now you'd also want
to document this.
I'm just going to use a
screenshot to do that.
It won't let me do that
so I'm going to cancel.
Close that file.
Don't save. Now let me
try to delete something.
Well, it doesn't even give
you the option to delete.
I'm going to try a
Control-X to delete.
I want to cut it. It
won't let me do that.
Bring up a post-hash here.
I'll try to edit it,
close it, and it
is not saving it.
We can try it again.
I'll draw again.
Save a copy.
I'm going to try to save it to M,
and again it's telling
me I can't save to
drive M. I could save
that somewhere else,
but I cannot write to the
right protected drive.
It is right protecting
my USB test drive which is
what it's supposed to do.
I'll just close that,
and if I reopen it,
you can see it did
not save the changes.
Let me try to add
something to it.
I'll just bring up anything
and I'll just try
to add this PDF.
Copy to test drive
and it's telling me my
disk is write-protected,
that I cannot add
any data to this.
Let me go ahead and take
another screenshot.
When you're doing this, you do
want to document what you did.
You tried to write to it,
you tried to erase something,
you tried to alter something,
and you were unable to do so.
Now that I've tried to alter
data on the drive or tried
to write to that drive,
I'm going to go ahead and
bring up FTK Imager again,
and I'm going to add
the driver again.
So File, Add Evidence Item.
We're looking for
a physical drive.
I'm going to select my USB
drive minus physical drive 13.
Yours will probably be different.
Click "Finish" and I can take
a look just to make sure I'm
looking at the same drive,
and I see the files that we
saw on Windows Explorer.
Now make sure you
highlight Physical Drive.
I'm going to go to File,
Verify Drive/Image.
It has completed.
Once it's completed,
I'm going to compare my results.
This would be considered
your post-hash.
We do a pre-hash and a post-hash.
Let me bring up my pre-hash
and I'm going to look at
the hash values and
they do in fact match.
Now what you would do
here is I go and click
"New" and I would take
a snapshot of this,
and I would save
it File, Save As,
and I'm going to call this my
"USB test drive post-hash."
I'm just going to leave it
as desktop and save it.
Now what you would want to
do is you would want to take
all the documentation and put it
into a single report, PDF.
Whoever you want to save
that documentation,
you'd want to make sure you wrote
the date and time
that you did this,
and you'd want to
keep a record of
all your validations so that
if you're ever going into court,
civil, criminal, or just
an internal hearing,
whatever type of
investigation you're doing,
you could show documentation
that you did in fact
validate your software before
you used it on the
original evidence.
With a software right blocker,
I would validate it
before each use.
With the hardware write blocker,
you do not have to do that.
Now I've done that and I'm done.
I want to go ahead and
eject my USB drive.
Remember to eject your USB
drive. Hang on just a second.
You're going to have to remove
the evidence item and close
FTK Imager before you're
able to eject that drive.
Now I want to eject my drive
before I turn off
USB write blocker.
I've ejected my drive.
Now I want to go ahead and
turn off USB write blocker.
To do that, we're going to
type the Number 2 to disable,
and we're going to type "Enter",
and it's going to again
prompt you that it
is going to make a
change to your registry,
I'm going to click "Yes" and now
we must press "Enter" again
or any key to continue,
and now USB write
blocker is turned off.
In our next module,
we're going to talk
about creating
and validating forensic images.
End of demonstration.